Vpaint Wishlist

o - Not putting up an 'overwrite old file' requestor when saving animation
    back with the same name it was loaded.

o - A moving cel (ie a cel with more than one frame)
* - Done in PJ (whole Anim Cel system.)

o - A way to save out only frames in time segment.
* - Done in PJ (Save Segment)

o - A way to delete all frames in time segment.
* - Done in PJ	(right click over delete)

o - A way to delete all frames not in time segment.
* - Done in PJ	(right click over delete)

o - 'lap join transitions  (transitions where animation doesn't stop).
* - Done in PJ (improved Join)

o - Moving mattes.

o - A way to add colors 1 at a time to color cluster.
* - Done in PJ

o - A way to delete 1 color at a time from cluster.

o - Way to set up polygon/curve tweening direct from optics.
* - Done in PJ (Tween and Cel accessible from element pull-down.)

o - During tweening making both end positions visible.
* - Done in PJ (Whole improved tween system.)

o - Way to reuse/tween other drawing tools that is more directly
    related to way tool defines shape (eg define center radius and angle
	of stars instead of going to poly tool and individually tweaking
	vertices).
* - Redo in PJ addresses a lot of this.

o - A way to save out each frame of a FLI as a PIC without using a macro
    or anything fancy.
* - Done in PJ (numpics.poc.)

o - A way to load in sequentially numbered PIC files without a macro.
* - Done in PJ (numpics.poc.)

o - Diagonal gradient inks

o - Rays tool.
* - Done in PJ (rays.poc)

o - Bubbles tool.

o - A _decent_ oval tool.  (With less ugly jags.)

o - An option so oval is horizontally/vertically alligned.

o - An 'angle snap' on lines (to force them always in 60 degree or 45 degree
	increments).

o - Way to put temp files into a directory as well as a drive.
* - Done in PJ.  Temp file system reworked.  Now have a path.

o - Option to save temp files to magnetic media on exit if using ram-disk.
* - Done in PJ.  Temp file system reworked.  

o - Way to have program aware of a 'large drive' which would be used for
    temp files when 'fast drive' is full.
* - Done in PJ.  Temp file system reworked.  

o - Installable input device drivers.
* - Done in PJ.  .IDR files

o - Ripple and buzz functions.

o - A 'shear' effect for optics.

o - A warning dialog in palette editor that would let you over-ride 'fit'
    setting when it's probably inappropriate (for instance when doing
	a tint or negative)

o - Using red outlines on dangerous confirmations dialogs
	(overwrite old file, file truncated, etc) instead of grey outlines.

o - An icon in file requestor for each file type to help make various
    file operations visually more distinct.

o - Confirmation dialog when loading a file when you've made more than
    a couple of changes to current file.

o - Way to move around zoom window with keys.

o - A 'combine clusters' and 'subtract clusters' items that would let
    you add or subtract the inactive cluster with the active cluster
	and put result in active cluster.

o - Pick color off screen in palette.
* - Done in PJ.

o - Color to all as in zoetrope.

o - Flip or turn 90 degrees the cel.
* - Done in PJ.

o - Way to cut out a cel with a polygon instead of a box.
* - Done in PJ. (Lassoo.)


PJ Wish-list.
