[:FMG, last update 11/27/88, v160]

Hi Jim.  Here's a list of features, modifications, and gripes. 
We've arranged them in two groups: features in one group,
followed by modifications and gripes in the other.  Both groups
are listed in alphabetical order with no particular priority. 
After you've had a chance to look them over, the three of us can
get together and prioritize the list -- similar to what we did in
the Antic conference room with Gumby last year.

     -- JP

FEATURES

(Features are things we'd really like to see added to VP, either
because we liked them so much in Gumby, or because they came to
us in a dream.  In alphabetical order.)

3-D F/X: Adjunct to Ripple, it would be nice to warp an image to
a drawn spline.

3-D F/X: Polygon tweening (a la The Animator).

3-D F/X: Ripple & Buzz -- both directions, if possible.

Blueing options, including History, etc.

Browse: Browse GIF.

Changes: Get Changes, Next Changes.

Color: A post-processing palette filter that goes through all
disparate palettes and fits them to avoid flicker during
playback.  (A color version of All Greys.)

Color: Lock a color range from change.

Color: Multiple gradients (as sort arrangements of current
palette) available for selection.

Color: HLS color adjustment.

Color: Color sort by Gradient; Hue, Lum, & Sat.; RGB

Color: Local color search & replace, single or multiple.

Color: Add Swap and Flip to Remap options.  Swap lets you define
a source range, then select the beginning of a destination;
colors from the source range are swapped with those in the
destination range.  Flip simply reverses the order of colors in
the defined range.

Color: Color table animation (color cycling).

Color: Create gradient using available palette colors.

Color: Grab gradient from screen colors.

Color: Split Pack selection into two choices: Pack Screen (like
Pack is now), and Pack Area (brings up cross hairs to select area
of screen colors to use for pack).

Color: Invert a range (a la Gumby's Invert)

Compositing: Over and Underlay GIFs.

Configuration: Need way to save configuration of Tool/Ink, mini-
palette, and current gradient of Fast Menu so VP boots with
those.

Display: Toggle cursor coordinate display on or off during normal
mouse operation.

Display: Toggle cursor coordinate display from top to bottom of
screen.

Dither: Dither strength adjustment.

Fast Menu: Redo button.

File: Maintain discrete drive paths for their functions, e.g.,
the directory selected for loading a FLI is maintained after
changing the directory selected for loading a GIF.

Grid: Paste Grid

Inks: A true Brighten.

Inks: Gradient direction control.

Inks: Give Soften a parameter control to reduce the effect.

Inks: Wherever practical, it should be possible to use the
current Ink with any paste-type operation, including Overlay,
Stretch, Rotate, 3-D F/X, and Trails. (See Inks in Modifications
section for more on this.)

Inks: Edge In.

Inks: Emboss direction (compass rose).

Inks: Monochrome Emboss  -- emboss everything down to the Active
Color and a lighter and darker shade of it.  

Macros: A way to turn off the cursor during Macro playbacks.

Macros: A way to convert the played-back Macro into a FLI.

Macros: (By the time I get through with the Macro project this
week, I'll probably have many more suggestions regarding macros.)

Masks: Save/Load Masks.

3-D F/X, Stretch & Rotate: Optional pixel averaging.

Stretch/Rotate: Constraints.

Time: Doubling and Tripling of frames (in Time menu).

Time: Automatically create a reversed set of frames in memory to
simulate ping-pong.

Time: A frame-locate slider (in Time menu) that updates the frame
number while you're moving it, but only updates the actual frame
after you've let it go.  (A more dynamic way to jump to a frame.)

Time: A fast way to make multiple copies of same frame, without a
bunch of extra garbage frames.  (Currently, you have to place the
pic in frame #1, set total frames to 1, set total frames to
whatever number you want -- or, you can Grab Alt then Put Alt
over All Frames.)

Tools: Line tool needs a K-line option.  (Would be nice to
include Connect and Concentric buttons among the Tools
parameters.)

Tools/Inks: Discrete Tool/Ink parameter settings.  


MODIFICATIONS & GRIPES

(Modifications are existing things we'd like to see changed
because we're so inventive we've thought of a better way.  Gripes
mean we really don't like the way it's working now but we're
usually too polite to say anything.  Many of these you are well
aware of, but we thought they should be written down lest we
forget.  In alphabetical order.)

Alerts: The resolution-conversion alerts need Exit or Cancel
buttons.  (Maybe just the first one...  How many alerts are
actually needed for this, anyway?)

Browse: Browse selection should be double-click, both to be
consistent with the file menus, and to avoid accidentally loading
a FLI and wiping out memory..

Browse: The same menu button should always be on whenever the
Browse menu appears (instead of hanging on to the last choice). 
Right now, it's too easy to Kill a file from Browse, go on to
something else, then return to Browse, select a file, and forget
that you'd previously set it to Kill. Preference would be Load
since that seems the most common use of Browse.

Color: Remaps should work to the color range as well as to the
entire palette.  (Instead of doing it like Gumby, maybe a
Range/Global button toggle?)

Color: Color range should be visible.

Composite: A way to combine colors on anim. merges without
shuffling the two palettes.  The following method would probably
be slow, but it would be more accurate than the present method:

Color Combine on Animation:

1.   Go through all frames of resident animation and find frame
     using the most colors.
2.   Pack this frame to create a maximum 128-color palette (less
     if less colors are used).
3.   Go through all frames of incoming animation and find frame
     using most colors.
4.   Pack this frame to create a minimum 128-color palette (more
     colors if previous pack left more free).
5.   Combine the two palettes into one -- first palette a solid
     block, followed by a solid block of the second palette --
     then do a best fit on each frame for both resident and
     incoming frames.

Dialogs: Mini-menu items that use asterisks (e.g., Options: Key
Color On) need some kind of delay after selection so the user
knows that the toggle has taken place.

Dialogs: Use slider bars for numeric-input dialog boxes.

Display: It would be nice to get rid of more of the playback
tear.

GIF conversion: Need some way to normalize the aspect ratio of
incoming res-converted pictures -- either the image is smaller to
fit in the VP screen, or it is scrollable image from which to
choose the display.  (Something like the Zoetrope Cropper options
would be nice.)  Also, some way to convert entire Targa pics a la
the Everex converter.  (Maybe these conversion routines should be
in a separate program to save space.)

Inks/Semantics: Dialog that now contains: 1. Transparent, 2. Zero
Clear, 3. Ink 0 Clear, 0. Cancel; should be changed to: 1. Use
Ink, 2. Key Color Clear, 3. Register 0 Clear, 0. Cancel.

Mask: The masking seems backwards.  I've always thought of a mask
as the part that does _not_ get drawn on (a la airbrushing
stencils).

Mask: Show Mask should use a neutral color that will always
display.  Maybe one of the menu colors, like red or white -- or
the brush-icon gray.

Menus: The menu colors not quite right; the greys are too close
in value.  The active drop-down items are indistinguishable from
the inactive items, and the current frame number plus the menu
titles are extemely difficult to read.  Also, the white used in
the buttons is a little too bright.  Suggestion: Change the dark
gray (21,21,21) to (28,28,28), and take the white down to
(55,55,55).

Menus: After loading a few AutoFliks that turned the entire
palette to black, Eric suggested there should be some key
combination that forces the menu colors into the palette.

Path: Path on single frame makes little sense -- pastes clip at
beginning of path.

Quit: Quit and [Q] keyboard alternate need consistency regarding
prompt.

Restore: Should Restore consider Swap Alt a change?

Splice: Too many dialogs before action.

Stretch/Rotate: Needs coordinate readouts.

Time Menu: I've reached the point where I can't remember which
part of the Playback Bar to right-click on for which function. 
Would prefer clicking anywhere on it to make various selections
in a Time menu.

