GAMES YOU CAN PLAY WITH YOUR VIDEO PAINT
                                

NOTE:  SELECT RESET FROM THE FLI MENU BEFORE EACH GAME!

The following sample files are suggested for the examples in this
document:

     EAGLE.GIF
     SCOTTY.GIF
     CARY.GIF


RADIAL GRADIENT SPHERE

First, make a 64-color gradient:

-    Select Reset from the Flic menu.
-    Enter Palette Editor.  Select Get Cluster from Cluster menu;
     left-click in the upper-left slot in the matrix (register
     zero); left-click in the far-right slot in the second row. 
     Result: two full rows of white boxes.
-    Select Ramp from Value menu.  Left-click on black key color
     (upper-left matrix slot); left-click on white color (far
     right of top row).  Result: smooth black-to-white gradient
     in white boxes and in current cluster.
-    Select Reverse from Cluster menu to make cluster colors run
     from light to dark.
-    Exit Palette Editor.
-    Draw a large, Opaque Circle of any color.
-    Select any different color.
-    Select the Fill tool.
-    Select R Grad ink.  Set Dither on.  Click on Center button.
-    Place cross hairs in the area of the circle that you want
     your sphere highlight (try slightly upper-left of center).
-    Click and move circle out to barely encompass the entire
     disk.  (It should be off-center.)
-    Fill the disk with the R Grad ink.

(Try reversing the direction of the gradient to see the result of
an R Grad fill with the dark colors to the left of the cluster
box.)

(Try R Grad fill to highlight shapes such as the sides of cubes.)

POSTERIZATION

To posterize a picture:

-    Select Reset from the Flic menu.
-    Load EAGLE.GIF from the Pic menu.  (Or any digitized image.)
-    Select Clip Alt from the Alt menu.
-    In the Palette Editor, turn on All and Fit.  Select Squeeze
     from the Value menu, and adjust the numeric slider to 10
     colors.

To get more colors:

-    Select Default from the Value menu.
-    Exit the Palette Editor.
-    Select V Grad ink.
-    Select Separate from the Pic menu.  Click on the sky
     background.

(If you want the original palette instead of the default palette
in the above procedure, before entering the Palette Editor, in
step 3, select Clip from the Cel menu to put the palette in the
cel.  Then instead of selecte Default from the Value menu, select
Use Cel.)

Transparent Shading

While you still have a picture with plenty of solid colors (like
the polarized Eagle), try the following:

-    Select the Sep. tool (set at Single).
-    Select Glass ink, Dither off, Ink Strength about 50.
-    Select a color from the mini-palette, then click on a solid
     area of color on the picture.  Result: All of those colors
     are subtly tinted with a shade of the selected color.

(Also, did you know that you can pick a color from the screen by
pressing [F1] while the cursor is over it?  Try selecting a
screen color, then separating it with the Glass ink.

THE LEFT AND RIGHT BRAIN OF MR. SCOTT

Mirroring the left or right side of a digitized face is easy to
do and produces bizarre portraits.  For best results, choose a
picture where the head is facing the camera almost head on, or at
only a slight three-quarter angle.

-    Select Reset from the Flic menu.
-    Load SCOTTY.GIF from the Pic menu.
-    Select Clip Alt.
-    Click on the [K] button in the control panel to turn it off.
-    Select Get from the Cel menu, and capture the right half of
     the screen, making sure one edge of the marquee box runs
     down the exact center of Scotty's nose.
-    Select Stretch from the Cel menu.
-    Left-click in the center of the cel box, move it to the
     center of the screen, and click to leave it.
-    Left-click just outside the left edge of the cel to flip it.
-    Left-click to set it in its flipped position.
-    Left-click in the center of the cel and move it to the left
     so the mirrored images line up.  (Watch the top and bottom
     edges for alignment.
-    Left-click to set it.
-    Right-click outside the cel to paste the mirrored image.
-    Use Soften ink with the Draw tool and a 4-5 brush to blend
     the join line.

That's the basic technique for creating mutant faces.  Using the
following steps, you can place all faces on the same screen for
comparison:

-    Select Shrink X2 from the Effects item in the Flic menu.
-    Select Swap Alt to trade places with the original Mr. Scott.
-    Repeat the steps above with the other side of Scotty's face
     -- including the Shrink X2.

IMPORTANT: Don't forget to go back to Opaque ink before you paste
the stretched image.  (Already forgot, didn't you.)

-    Press [Tab] to clip the second shrunken head.
-    Select Swap Alt to bring back the first shrunken head.
-    Make sure you're using Opaque Ink (!), then select Paste
     from the Cel drop-down menu and paste the second head to the
     right of the first.
-    Select Swap Alt, then reload the original SCOTTY.GIF.
-    Select Shrink X2.
-    Press [Tab] to clip shrunken head #3.
-    Select Swap Alt, then paste the original -- but shrunken --
     Scotty below the other two.

Try the above on different faces.  (CARY.GIF is a good one.)  Try
combining two different faces.  Try bodies.  Try trees.

WARP-SPEED WIPE

Here's a way to create a "warp speed" effect, then turn it into a
wipe transition.

-    Select Reset from the Flic menu.
-    Load your favorite GIF picture into frame 1 (the more colors
     in its palette, the better).
-    Select Clip Alt.
-    If black isn't already in the key color slot, place the
     blackest color in your palette in the key color slot.
-    Select Clear from the Pic menu.
-    Set the Spray tool to 10 Air Speed and 100 Spray Width.
-    Using an Opaque ink with a one-pixel brush and the whitest
     color you can find, lightly brush the entire screen to
     create a star field.
-    Create 50 total frames.
-    Select Optics from the Vpaint menu.
-    Select Pull Back from the Presets menu, and Pic from the
     Element menu.
-    Select Use.
-    From the Time Select menu, select In Slow and Out Slow.  To
     All should be active, but the remaining movement buttons
     should be off.
-    Select Preview.  If the effect is a shrinking back toward
     the center, select Render.
-    Select Trails from the Effects menu (in the Flic menu). 
     Select Zero Clear from the message box.
-    Play it back.

Instant cliche.  Save it from the Flic menu, if you like.  Now,
to jazz it up.

-    Reenter the Optics Editor. Select Spin Small from the
     Presets menu, then select Use.
-    Select Render from the Time Select menu.
-    Select Trails from the Effects options, then Zero Clear.
-    Select Scrape Ink.
-    Move to the last frame (where there's plenty of white).
-    Activate the [T] button in the control panel.
-    Select Separate from the Pic menu.  Click on a white area on
     screen.
-    Select Render from the Time Select menu.

-    Save it if you like it.

-    Move to frame 1, where there's plenty of black.
-    Select the Spark Ink; select Separate from the Frame drop-
     down menu, click once on a black background pixel, then
     select Render from the Time Select menu.

-    Save it, whether you like it or not.
-    Select New from the Flic menu.
-    Swap Alt.
-    Make 10 total frames.
-    Select Splice from the Flic menu.
-    Select To Start.
-    Select your saved flic from the file selector.
-    Select Transition, then select Dissolve and accept 16
     frames.
-    Play it back.

CRYSTALS

-    Select Reset from the Flic menu.
-    Create a 64-color cluster ramp of colors ranging from pure
     black to pure white, (see Radial Sphere for details).
-    Set the key color to register zero (black), if it isn't
     already.
-    Select white, and Spray a _very_ light sprinkle of white
     dots.  (Speed 10, Spread 100.)
-    Place the Hollow and Glass (strength 10, dither off) inks in
     the control panel slots.
-    Select Record from the Extra menu, and Start Record from the
     Macro options menu.
-    Click on Glass (whether it's already selected or not).
-    Select Apply Ink from the Pic menu.
-    Click on Hollow.
-    Select Apply Ink from the Pic menu.
-    Select Record from the Extra menu, and click on End Record.
-    Select Record from the Extra menu, and click on Repeat
     Macro.  Set the repeat for 15, and let it go to town.

As the macros are repeated, the "seed" white will gradually
thicken and grow.  Why?  (Answer, below.)

When the repeated macros finish, the original whites may be a
little too bright. You can blend them with the rest with the
Separate function:

-    Select Opaque Ink.
-    Select Zoom, and zoom into any portion of the screen.
-    Place the cursor directly a pixel bordering the bright
     white, and press [F1] to pick up that color.
-    Select Separate from the Pic menu.
-    Click on any bright white pixel to change them all to the
     dimmer white.

Answer:  When you selected Apply Ink using the Glass ink, a very
pale version of white (really a dark grey) was applied over the
entire screen.  When you next selected Apply Ink using the Hollow
ink, the solid areas of the dark grey were changed to the key
color (black), leaving a one-pixel border of the dark grey around
the seed white. Each time this cycle was repeated, the colors
were overlaid with an increasing layer of transparent white which
was hollowed out.

For variety, try different seed shapes, like lines or letters. 
Where you are right now, you can clear the screen, draw another
shape, and select Repeat Macro. Try different repetitions of the
macros. Try using a different active color than white at the
beginning. Try different key colors.

PETAL/STAR SPIN

-    Select Reset from the Flic menu.
-    Put Draw, Poly, Star, and Petal in the tool slots of the
     control panel.
-    Select your favorite color, and draw a single dot in the
     center of the screen (approximately).
-    Adjust Petal to 50 Inner Radius, and 12 Points, and turn
     Filled off.
-    Draw a petal from the center point outward, filling most of
     the screen.
-    Right-click on Poly, select Tween, and select Set Start
     Position.
-    Return to the main screen, select Star, and draw a star from
     the same center point, the same diameter as the petal, so
     that its points are between the petals (approximately).
-    Reenter the Poly tool, select Tween, and select Set End
     Position.
-    Return to the main screen, select Optics from the Vpaint
     menu.
-    Select Clear All from the Presets menu, and Poly from the
     Element menu.
-    Select Spin/Center in the Optics panel, left-click on the
     drawing screen.  Left-click to pick up the center icon, and
     move it to the drawn center dot.  (It may be a bit slow.) 
     Left-click to set the new center.
-    Exit the Optics Editor, Clear the Pic, then create 60 total
     frames.
-    Reenter the Optics Editor.  Select Spin/Turns.  Click on the
     [1] button at the bottom of the sliders.  Set the bottom
     slider (Z axis) to 1.
-    Click on Use.  Preview the effect, then click on Render.

TRICKS WITH THE ALTERNATE SCREEN

Grid Paste:

-    Select Reset from the Flic menu.
-    Load a picture.
-    Clip Alt.
-    Load a different picture.
-    Select Scrape Ink.
-    Select Grid from the Extra menu, then select Create.
-    Click in the extreme upper-left corner of the screen (0 0),
     then move the mouse to the bottom-left corner of the screen,
     and adjust the grid so the status line reads:

     0 0 (2 199) 2 199

-    Left-click to set the grid.
-    Click on Use in the Grid menu to turn it off.
-    Click on Paste.
-    Exit the Grid menu and check it out.

Try different grid shapes.  Try Swap Alt, load new pic, Swap Alt
again, and redefine different grids to reveal different pictures.

Engrave and Separate:

-    Select Scrape ink.
-    Load a picture.
-    Clip Alt.
-    Load a different picture.
-    Select Effects from the Flic menu, then select Engrave.
-    Select Separate from the Pic menu, then click on either the
     white or the black in the engraved screen.

Try the above sequence with Lace.  If you separated black, try
separating white.  As long as you're separating Engraved and
Laced pics, try separating using gradient inks.  Also try Apply
Ink with Sweep ink over an Engraved or Laced pic.

MACRO PIXELATE

This is memory intensive.  Don't feel too left out if you run out
of memory.

-    Select Reset from the Flic menu.
-    Load a nice pic.
-    Clip Alt (just to have it).
-    Create 15 total frames.
-    Move to frame 2.
-    Select Effects from the Flic menu, then select Pixelate.
-    Set both width and height to 1.  (Wait while it does nothing
     to the screen.)
-    Select Macro from the Extra menu, then select Start Record.
-    Select Effects, and Pixelate.
-    IMPORTANT: Single-click on the right arrow in both the width
     and the height sliders to adjust both width and height to 5. 
     (Don't drag the slider, the macro has to record each click.)
-    After frame 2 is pixelated, click on the next frame arrow in
     the Frame control icons to move to frame 3.
-    Select Record from the Extra menu, and click on End Record.
-    Select Record again, select Repeat macro, set it for 13
     frames, and let it go to town.
-    Play it back.

REFLECTION POOL

Use the following technique to place a glass reflection below an
animation.

-    Select (or create) an animation that has plenty of vertical
     movement, and fills the entire screen.  (For a start, select
     an animation with 20 or so frames.  If you have MRBLOB.FLI,
     that will work fine.)  For this example, we'll call the
     animation BOUNCE.FLI.
-    Load the animation, and use filled Box Opaque to mark a
     small, horizontal line at the left edge of frame 1 about
     one-third up from the bottom of the screen.  (You can use
     the Box Tool to create one-pixel width horizontal or
     vertical lines.)  This will be your horizon line.
-    Right-click on the [M]ask button in the Control Panel,
     select Create, and exit the menu.
-    Draw a solid box that begins at the mark you made, and
     extends the full width of the screen down to the bottom of
     the screen.
-    Select Undo to erase the box.  (Even though you erased the
     box, your mask as been created.)
-    Reenter the Mask menu, and click on Create to turn off the
     create mode.  Exit the Mask menu.
-    Enter the Optics panel, and select Clear All (No Motion)
     from the Presets menu.
-    Select Spin/Center, left-click in the drawing area, left-
     click again and drag the axis so that the X axis is directly
     over the horizontal mark you made earlier.  Left-click once
     more to set the new Center position and return to the Optic
     panel.
-    Select Spin/Turn, click on the [1/2] button under the
     sliders, and adjust the top (X axis) slider to 1.
-    Select Use.
-    From the Time Select panel, turn on the Still and Complete
     buttons at the bottom of the panel, and make sure the rest
     of the buttons are inactive.  Turn on the To All button, if
     it isn't already. 
-    Check that your Ink is set to Opaque, then click on Render.

The entire animation should be turned upside down, equally, over
all frames so that the original bottom of the screen aligns with
the horizon.

-    Save the upside-down animation to disk under a different
     name.  (Just for back-up.)
-    Exit the Optics panel.
-    Enter the Mask menu, and click on Use.  Click on View to
     check the mask; it should cover the lower half of the
     screen.  (If not, select Invert so that it does.)
-    Exit the Mask menu.
-    Make sure you are one frame 1 (before you do the following
     composite).
-    Select Composite from the Flic menu.  Select Overlay Opaque,
     and load the original BOUNCE.FLI.  When the first frame
     appears, right-click, then answer Yes.

The incoming animation will be loaded, right-side up.  Since the
mask is in effect, the upside-down lower half will be untouched.

You now have a reflected animation, but the following steps will
make the lower half look more like a glass surface.

-    Select Dark Ink, and set the Ink Strength to about 20.
-    Click on the [T]ime mode button on the Control Panel so that
     it is highlighted.
-    Enter the Mask menu, click on Use to turn off the mask, then
     click on Paste.

The original mask will be pasted with Dark Ink, darkening the
lower "reflective" area.

Play back the animation.  Show it to friends, or go back over the
above steps and figure out what went wrong.


